Welcome to Web Audio Synthesis and
Visualization.
My name is Matt DesLauriers and today's
class is gonna be about web audio and
how to use audio in
the browser with JavaScript.
We're gonna be talking quite a lot
about using the library itself,
the web audio API.
Then we're gonna also get into some
other libraries like Tone.js to be
able to help us in a bit
of a more convenient way.
The first part of the workshop is gonna
be just pure JavaScript, pure Web Audio,
some of the lower level concepts, but
also talking about how audio works.
What is digital audio and
sort of the basics of that.
And then in the second part of
the workshop, we're gonna get more into
synthesizing audio,
how to make music just with code and
using libraries like Tone.js to
make things a little bit easier.
So to talk about some of the tools and
libraries, so
we're gonna be using
a few different things.
I'm going to show a little bit of Glitch,
we might not end up using it for
the coding.
It'll be there, it's something that
you can always refer to later.
Just for today, just for the sake of
being offline and making sure everything
works properly, I'm gonna be doing most
of the coding without the Internet and
just using a local sort of server.
But especially for those of you
who have never used Node.js or
those of you who are kinda
new to local web development,
you might rather use some of
the examples that I've posted on Glitch.
And that's gonna be a place
where you can edit the code,
you can see the results of the code.
You can hear it, and
you can also remix it and
sort of build up your own little
sketches in your own little projects.
We're also obviously gonna be using
the Web Audio API which you don't need to
install anything, it's just built
into the browser, it's already there.
And so that's that's gonna allow
us to do all these things.
And then later in the afternoon,
we're gonna be using Tone.js.
And that's gonna be specifically for
synthesizing audio and
using a more convenient,
more helpful library for
playing audio in a way that's using
synths and using musical notes and
things like that and layering them
to create something interesting.
And for rendering, I like to instead of
just looking at a screen with a button
on it or instead of just looking at a
blank page, I like to use p5.js to try and
visualize this in a simple way.
Just with circles, lines,
rectangles, nothing too complicated.
But this might be new to you if you've
never done any sort of creative coding or
you've never done any sort
of graphics programming.
That might be a bit of a new thing and
you might just have to sort of try and
follow along.
Or if you really want to
start from the basics,
I also have that Creative Coding Workshop
with Frontend Masters where you can
learn all about how to draw shapes,
draw those kinda things with Canvas API.
So to start off,
this is where you can go and
just this will be our sort of
home base for the workshop.
It's
github.com/mattdesl/workshop-web-audio.
And this includes all of the notes,
it includes links to the different demos,
which I'll open in a second.
It includes a list of some of the tools
and also links to the API documentation.
Some of the versions I've
just decided to use here.
Also links,
if you're new to JavaScript I have a few
references here that I often suggest.
Presumably I think most of the audience
here is familiar with JavaScript.
It's gonna be very code heavy, I'm gonna
be showing code examples with ES6 and
things like that.
So you might need to be familiar with
JavaScript to really follow along some of
the code examples I'll
be talking about today.
And then also some code snippets.
So a lot of this will just be sort
of taking little bits of code, and
I have a few snippets here that you
can reference instead of having to
always reference it within a big file.
Within a big sketch,
you can just see the snippets here.
And then also just some
further reading here.
And if you go all the way up to the top,
you can go into the source, and
you can see all the different demos
that I'm gonna sort of showing here.
And then also you might,
if you wanna run this locally,
you can clone it or download it as a zip.
Or if you're not wanting
to run it locally,
you can just open up these links here.
So I've already got one open here.
This is Web Audio demos and
this one is just showing a few of
the different demos that
are using pure Web Audio.
We'll go in later to some other demos,
like the Tone.js demo,
that'll be in the afternoon.
But for now, let's just focus on this one.
This is just pure Web Audio, which is
like the lowest level you can get with
this kind of library in
this kind of system.
This is what's gonna allow
us to play mp3 files,
like this piano track
that's in the background.
[SOUND] Or
some very loud sort of chime sound,
which is played immediately on a tap,
instead of it being sort
of streamed in the background,
like background music.
And also affecting the audio,
such as changing the volume in real time,
based on some user interaction.
And then we'll talk about visualization.
So visualizing a waveform.
[SOUND] I'll talk about what is a waveform
as well, I'll explain those things.
But I'll just run through these.
[MUSIC]
Just another waveform demo.
And then metering, so just getting
the levels of a track as well.
[MUSIC]
And splitting those levels up into
different frequency bands so that we can
start to analyze the different tones,
whether it's high pitch or low pitch
[MUSIC]
And similar, just listening to kick drums
so that we can start to create these
interesting maybe visualizers
based on electronic type of music.
[MUSIC]
Or creating something that's more like
a generative artwork that's ever changing,
something that's a little bit more
calming and more contemplative maybe.
So those are there,
the Web Audio demos, and
we'll come back to that in just a second.
Then I'll go back to this for now.